---
layout:     post
title:      Carla 0.9.15 Consumption
subtitle:   Combining Carla and PHA
date:       2024-03-04
author:     Shrijal Pradhan
ext-img: "https://oneclick-cloud.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Bigstock_-139961875-Docker-Emblem.-A-Blue-Whale-With-Several-Containers.-e1574090673987-1.jpg"
catalog: true
categories: blog
permalink: /:categories/:title/
tags:
    - pha
    - docker
    - robotics
    - ros
---

## Introduction

This article documents the steps taken to upgrade [Carla ROS Bridge] to be compabible with [Carla Simulator v0.9.15.2] and with Ubuntu 22.04. The changes are very simple and no functional improvements are applied. See [ROS Humble] to get started with ROS 2. For installation an a simple introduction to docker see [Easy Guide to Installing Docker].

## Patch and work

The patch work is very (very) simple. In the [Carla ROS Bridge] simply make this change in `pcl_recorder/CMakeLists.txt` in Line `69`.

```cmake
ament_target_dependencies(${PROJECT_NAME}_node rclcpp sensor_msgs
                            pcl_conversions tf2 tf2_ros tf2_eigen)
```

That's it really. The `tf2_eigen` must be additionally specified as a dependency to build `pcl_recorder` and we are good to go for the package to be built on Ubuntu 22.04 with [ROS Humble]. This was first applied in [Carla ROS - Tf Eigen].

Also don't for get to change the `CARLA_VERSION` in `carla_ros_bridge/src/carla_ros_bridge/CARLA_VERSION`.

```bash
0.9.15
```

## Update the Dockerfile

Updating the Dockerfile was more challenging than originally thought. The entire commit is in [Commit Dockerfile Humble]. The solution however was very simple. Basically use [rosdep] to install and update dependencies. This way all the dependencies are automatically checked and updated. The usage is the same as the original instructions which we will delve into next.

## Sample usage with the new Dockerfile

#### Run Carla Simulator

First thing we have to do is run the carla simulator in a separate docker container as the carla server. See [Carla Server] for more details.

```bash
xhost +local:docker
docker run --privileged --gpus all \
    --net=host -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY carlasim/carla:0.9.15 /bin/bash ./CarlaUE4.sh
```

The important thing here is to run the container with priviliges of accessing the GPUs and allow the carla port to be shared with the entire network.

#### Build Carla ROS Bridge

There is already a script available to build the bridge. First download the updated version of [Carla ROS Bridge - Humble] into your folder of choice.

As we will be installing the package inside a Docker Container, we do not need to build the ROS package itself.

```bash
# Navigate to your ROS Workspace or another folder
# mkdir -p ~/ros_ws/src
# cd ~/ros_ws/src
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/pradhanshrijal/ros-bridge -b feature/u22-0.9.15
cd ros-bridge/docker
```

We can only build the docker image:

```bash
./build.sh
```

An additional script is available to build the docker container with the user priviliges of the current user. The difference is that it builds with a tag with the name of the user.

```bash
./build_user.sh
```

#### Run Carla ROS Bridge

There is also a script available for running the now built image:

```bash
./run.sh
```

It run the script with the user based image:

```bash
./run.sh -t humble-$USER
```

## the PHA Way

Now we will integrate this bridge into the [PHA Project] and use it as an example for how to use this project. What we will do is install this package as an addition to the available image, in the [SSI].

#### Folder Setup

First we setup the project as documented in [SSI Space].

```bash
cd /home/${USER}
mkdir schreibtisch
cd schreibtisch
git clone https://github.com/pradhanshrijal/pha_docker_files
```

#### Run Sample Container

We will use the [PHA 22 Mini] image to show a sample installation. This image does not contain all the dependencies required by the ros-bridge so there will be some installations of dependencies associated with the container, the package itself will be installed in the [SSI]. The storage of this space is associated with the host and not the container itself.

```bash

```

## Conclusion

This article creates a base simulation platform for the [PHA Project] using Carla with Ubuntu 22.04.

## Bibliography

- [Carla ROS Bridge]
- [Carla Simulator v0.9.15.2]
- [Carla Server]
- [ROS Humble]
- [PHA 22 Mini]
- [PHA Docker]
- [Commit Dockerfile Humble]

[Carla ROS Bridge]: https://github.com/carla-simulator/ros-bridge
[Carla ROS Bridge - Humble]: https://github.com/pradhanshrijal/ros-bridge/tree/feature/u22-0.9.15 
[Carla Simulator v0.9.15.2]: https://github.com/carla-simulator/carla/tree/0.9.15.2
[Carla Server]: https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/stable/carla_server/
[Carla ROS - Tf Eigen]: https://github.com/carla-simulator/ros-bridge/issues/691#issuecomment-1632398151
[ROS Humble]: https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/index.html
[PHA Project]: {{site.url}}/pha-project/
[SSI]: {{site.url}}/{{page.categories}}/a-chaotic-guide-to-using-docker-for-robotics-research-part-i/#single-source-of-information
[SSI Space]: {{site.url}}/{{page.categories}}/a-chaotic-guide-to-using-docker-for-robotics-research-part-i/#finally-space-for-the-ssi
[PHA 22 Mini]: https://hub.docker.com/layers/phaenvs/pha-22/mini/images/sha256-9a6281b350f1d279374f28fc5d9b70e0996b1f6b588593ae37b622c09d58ca74?context=explore
[PHA Docker]: https://github.com/pradhanshrijal/pha_docker_files 
[Easy Guide to Installing Docker]: {{site.url}}/{{page.categories}}/easy-guide-to-installing-docker/
[Commit Dockerfile Humble]: https://github.com/carla-simulator/ros-bridge/commit/9769ed84157534381d51438cec793fc9c2c707c3
[rosdep]: https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Tutorials/Intermediate/Rosdep.html